---
layout: post
title: How to solve behemoth0 task
---

The tasks have been taken from [overthewire.org](http://overthewire.org/wargames/behemoth/).

Login into the war box:

```
    $ ssh behemoth0@behemoth.labs.overthewire.org -p 2221
    with password behemoth0
```

Try to play with:

```
    $ /behemoth/behemoth0
```

We are required to enter the password. Entering something
long does not help. So there is no obvious buffer overflow.

Let's take a look into the file.

```
    $ cat /behemoth/behemoth0
```

You should notice interesting strings among the output:

```
    unixisbetterthanwindowsfollowthewhiterabbitpacmanishighoncrackPassword: %64sAccess granted../bin/shAccess denied..;0$
```

Those string may be somehow related to the password, but
entering anything of it does not help.

Ok.

But what we see that there is `/bin/sh` which must be a
result of successful password insertion using its suid bit.

`gets/scanf` uses buf of 64 symbols long.

```
    $ readelf -a /behemoth/behemoth0
```

In `.dynsym` and `.symtab` sections you can notice presence
of interesting function `memfrob`. It looks very harmless,
until reading of the man file `man memfrob` would give you
an insight, that this function is actually a memory protector
which may be used to hide actual password string against
which entered password checked.

Here, you also can check various sections dumps but that
would not give you anything more:

```
    $ objdump -s /behemoth/behemoth0
```

`.rodata` contains everything you have saw with plain `cat`.

Ok, go for gdb with:

```
    $ gdb -ix /usr/local/gdbinit/gdbinit /behemoth/behemoth0
    gdb$ func
```

Among everything there will be `main` and `memfrob`.

```
    gdb$ dis main
```

You will see a disassembled `main` listing. There will be
`memfrob` in the middle right after the `scanf` call. 

It's easy to notice that right after the `memfrob` there is 
a `strcmp`. Obviously, that must be the place where passwords
gets compared. Set breakpoint there and run:

```
    gdb$ b strcmp
    gdb$ run
    Starting program: /behemoth/behemoth0
    Password: 12345
```

You will be stopped at the breakpoint.

```
    gdb$ x/32w $esp+0xC
```

To get current string address on the stack.

Then, just print out memory with the password:

```
    gdb$ hexdump 0xADDRESS_FROM_STACK_MEM-8 2
```

Use obtained password to enter new `/bin/sh` shell and
get the flag for the next warbox.

Links
===

- [Objdump - How to output text (eg ASCII strings) alongside assembly code?](https://reverseengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/14633/objdump-how-to-output-text-eg-ascii-strings-alongside-assembly-code)
